Here is our JAMstack intro
basic upon the site.
It's doing what we want.
So I want to deploy this,
I want to get it up on the Internet.
So let's add a tool.
There are a lot of ways you can do this.
The way that I've chosen to do it today is
to use nullify, because nullify free and
it's pretty painless.
So I'm gonna use, let's do, so
we're gonna yard global add netlify-cli.
And this gives us some command line tools
to quickly set up a new project and
all those things.
Again, you can do this manually, but
it's kind of nice to be able to do it,
just right from the command line.
If you don't wanna use yarn,
you can use mm global or npm install -g.
>> Yep, yep.
>> Yeah.
>> With the Netlify bit,
do you have to point it to your account
in Netlify, or just does the blank-
>> It'll actually handle that for
you when you first run it.
So with the Netlify CLI,
let me just open that up.
So once you install it,
it'll kind of pick this all up.
So you can run Netlify login.
So let me just step through this actually.
So I will run Netlify login.
And it shows me that
I'm already logged in.
If you are not logged in, it's just
going to step you through the process.
But what's really fun about this is now
that we've got this set up now that we've
got this site deployed and
hooked up to get and all of this.
Again, we are really kind of the masters
of our destiny when we look at
at JAMstack to play.
So as front end developers,
I wanna make a change and
I wanna let's say,
I wanna try something new.
I wanna see how this site looks.
If I make the background yellow.
So what I can do then is I can
check out a feature branch.
So let's check out a new branch dash b for
a new branch, and
I'll say background color.
And on this branch,
I'm going to make a change to my CSS.
And I want the background color,
To be, let's go with yellow.
And I'm in a risky mood, so I don't
necessarily wanna check this locally.
I'm just gonna ship it.
So we've got our change here, and
I'm not gonna even worry about
the the Netlify stuff just yet.
So then I'm going to commit
Okay so then I'm gonna push this
branch up and that goes up to GitHub.
And then I wanna open up a pull request.
And so what I could do is I could go to
the GitHub UI, I could find that branch
and I could click the Create Pull Request
button and all that stuff.
But what I'd rather do is just
type in pull request using hub and
then it opens up them.
This, if you aren't familiar with sorry,
I just trapped you there forever.
If you are familiar with this is
the commit message that I just sent.
So I'm gonna :wq to save and exit.
And that will now create
a port request for us.
So, I'm gonna open this link, and our
poll request is open now and check this
out, Netlify's already doing stuff, right?
So Netlify is now doing a deploy.
So if I click this button,
I can see that no it's done or
it's almost done.
It looks like it wants to let me preview,
so I can click Preview and
maybe that wasn't my best move, right?
But what's really cool about this
is like now I have my actual site.
So this is the actual site
JAMstack intro basic.netlify.com.
But my pull request got this unique
address that I can share with someone so
that I could say, hey, team,
I have this great idea.
What if we made the site a lot uglier?
And they can look at this and give me
feedback on it and they can say, hey,
that's a terrible idea.
Don't do that [LAUGH]
but
let's say that I'm feeling
particularly evil, and
without asking for permission,
I just go ahead and merge this.
So I merge it, and
then in Netlify, we'll see.
As soon as it merges, it's going to
start rebuilding that master branch.
And we'll just go ahead and watch this
happen should happen nice and fast.
>> Where did you get that link for
the pull request?
>> The link for the pull request
gets generated by the [CROSSTALK]
>> For the link for the pull request.
>> So in your, your list of deploys,
it gives you a deploy preview and
there's just a button right here.
It also gets added in your,
here once this is done, it'll show you
that the deploy previous ready and
you can click this button to see it.
So this is And it looks like it
actually gave me an even better,
like more human readable name for
that once the deploy preview is finished.
So there are a lot of really nice
options for getting this done.
But so okay, I've now gone ahead and
defaced our company website.
And so I was working over the weekend
I didn't ask for approval,
I just did this thing.
And so naturally the team came in and
they're like,
this is about you gotta
you gotta fix this.
Instead of me having to go and
make this change.
Somebody with permissions
can just go back in here and
say, let's just use this one,
like let's go back to the original one.
And then when I reload,
we're back to the fixed site.
And then they can reprimand me in private,
and
have me fix the push before
we put something up.
But the instant rollback, right?
So we've now kinda moved back
to what should be there.
So these are the reasons, to kinda go back
to your question about why I'm using this
over GitHub Pages, is that it just
gives us more flexibility and control.
We can kinda see, try out things, share
it with our team, see what they think.
But again, I was able to take my idea to
something that was up on the Internet and
reviewable by the team without having
to do anything other than write
down the code for the idea,
the rest of it just happens automatically.
And I think that really starts to
illustrate the power of this approach is
that I don't need permission for my team.
I don't need someone to
stand up a staging server.
I don't need to go through
a review process that has to get
vetted by whoever's coming back
from their lunch break in an hour.
Like, it's just a very quick,
I get to say,
what if we did it like this and
I put that up and it's good to go.
So that is the kind of a quick overview.
Basic JAMstack stuff,
getting it up on the Internet.
And it's still up there,
we've got to live on in perpetuity.